Move from exceptions to tag clearing (#1)
CTSRD-CHERI/cheri-specification: chap-model.tex

when exceptions might be delivered.
For example, while an attempt to broaden (rather than narrow) bounds could
generate an immediate exception, the operation could instead generate a
non-dereferenceable pointer as its output, in effect deferring an exception
until the time of an attempted load, store, or instruction fetch.
Both of these implementations ensure monotonicity by preventing derived
pointers from improperly allowing increased access following guarded
manipulation, and are consistent with the model.

Initially, in our prototyping, we selected to deliver exceptions as early as
possible when such events occur.
However, all current CHERI ISA instantiations defer exceptions to the use
of a capability's authority, instead clearing the tag on operations that
would otherwise violate monotonicity.

\pdrnote{The following two paragraphs perhaps belong in rationale?}
The early exception approach offers slightly improved debuggability
(by exposing the error earlier).
However, early exceptions limit compiler optimization as instructions that may
throw exceptions are restricted in how they can safely be reordered.

> For example, a bounds restriction performed within a loop could be hoisted to
> before the loop, except for the possibility that the bounds are being widened.

Reviewer: Maybe something more detailed like this:

```suggestion
For example, this prevents a bounds restrictions performed within a loop from
being hoisted outside the loop, unless that instructions is always executed.
If the loop is not always entered, this could turn a conditional execution of a  trapping instruction into an unconditional one.\footnote{%
This is not just a theoretical possibility -- we observed this happening in the FreeBSD kernel and had to modify the compiler to avoid hoisting any
potentially-trapping CHERI instructions.
}
```

of a capability's authority, instead clearing the tag on operations that
would otherwise violate monotonicity.

\pdrnote{The following two paragraphs perhaps belong in rationale?}
The early exception approach offers slightly improved debuggability
(by exposing the error earlier).
However, early exceptions limit compiler optimization as instructions that may
throw exceptions are restricted in how they can safely be reordered.
For example, a bounds restriction performed within a loop could be hoisted to
before the loop, except for the possibility that the bounds are being widened.
In addition, code that manipulates untrusted capabilities is forced to branch
when the operation would be illegal, or risk being vulnerable to
denial-of-service attacks.
This may require it to recreate the hardware-performed checks in software.

With a deferred-exception approach, as well as avoiding these issues,
microarchitecture is simplified by reducing the set of instructions that can
throw exceptions.
While it is initially tempting to delay performing the required checks,
forwarding the common-case value and later flushing the pipeline if a check

> fails, this leads to exploitable speculative speculative side channel

Reviewer 2: duplicate word "speculative"
